hi guys it's all rigged with Gator
ingenuity I hope you're doing well today
I'm going to kick off a new series of
guitar videos essentially I guess I can
call them guitar questions to keep it
very generic in general I want to cover
in each video a question that I receive
from you on being a student or
subscriber to the website or to my
youtube channel and I thought it's a
good opportunity to just get these
questions answered to the extent
possible there are some questions that I
simply can't answer for those that I can
answer I will do a separate video so the
first question in this series is is it
hard to learn to play the guitar and
that's a seemingly trivial question that
would deserve straightforward answer but
it's unfortunately not that
straightforward
because we all have different standards
when it comes to a determined what's
hard and not hard I guess the underlying
problem is that um with the the presence
of the internet and all the offers that
you see it kind of suggests that you can
learn to play guitar in your sleep or
that's probably a little extreme or by
putting in very little effort so there
all these offers out there these courses
or programs they suggest you can play
like Hendrix in the you know two three
weeks or something like that I'm making
this up but you probably get the point
on it goes to the extent that I found
actually a an offer where they suggest
that learn guitar in your sleep and I I
did a I did a spoof on that on on my
website um trying to ridicule the whole
notion that it would be remotely
possible to put on a set of headphones
go to sleep and then essentially do that
for a couple of days and you wake up and
then you can
play it hard that's just nonsense
obviously but I'm more it's not the
single the single offers it's the
totality of that notion and that
suggestion that learning guitar is
really not that complicated anymore you
know back in the days people had to
practice well the truth is you still
have to practice there is just no other
way around
things have become much easier with the
advent of the internet because you have
much more resources available or DVDs or
all kinds of different things so that
has become much easier but nonetheless I
think if your guitar starter or think if
you're thinking about starting to learn
to play the guitar it's probably a
little bit harder than you would think
so what does that mean harder what does
it mean putting in the effort well it
comes down to practice if you want to
learn something new and that includes an
instrument such as the guitar you have
to practice in order to master that
skill so there are no hard and fast
rules but if you are a beginner and as I
suggested my beginners guitar course for
example if you can do five to six days a
week 20 minutes each you're in very good
shape here's the problem most of you who
hear this Oh 20 minutes a day 5 to 6
days piece of cake I can easily do that
well that might be true for the first
couple of weeks but what typically
happens once things get a little bit
more challenging you know the interest
drops off and then other things become
more important so it's very important
that you keep keep us a consistency as
you practice and don't slag off so to
sum up is it hard to learn to play
guitar I would put it this way it's
probably a little bit harder than you
think simply because there's this idea
out there that everything is much much
easier these days which is true to some
extent yet you are still required to put
in the effort you're still required to
be committed
to have the willingness to practice and
to keep up a consistent level of
practice on a regular basis however if
you're willing to do that you're in
pretty good shape
and if you can in fact put into 20
minutes five to six days per week then
learning to play guitar is actually
relatively easy now some of us are
simply more talented than others
I am I for example I am NOT talented at
all I had to work much much harder to
get the same results compared to someone
who has more talent in whose movement
musical yet I was determined I I was
willing to put in the effort and you dip
the truth of the matter is you can get
to the same result it may just require
you to work a little bit harder so
crucial for you is to have access to the
right tools to get you started now I
don't want to cover in this video but
with one of the next videos how you can
go about figuring out what is the right
way for you to learn to play the
instrument do you want to work with the
teacher do you want to go on do you want
to do it online do you want to sign up
for a guitar chords' a free guitar
course or whatever that may be we will
cover that in in a separate video but if
you want to get started in the meantime
just to to continue the thought process
what I invite you to do is check out the
beginners guitar course it's completely
free of charge there's no money involved
there's no email signup no membership um
there's the link somewhere here I
believe you can just click on it and
just get the process started because in
the first couple of lessons we really
cover a lot of the questions that you
may have at this point as you try to
figure out how to to go about learning
learning the instrument so I hope it was
helpful happy to discuss everything in
more detail with you feel free to leave
a comment feel free to leave questions
please leave a like before you go and
also subscribe to my channel I see you
in a little bit when we cover the next
question till then bye bye
you